### Mrs JM, 66-year-old, presents with a new prescription for candesartan 4 mg daily. On checking her medication record, she has been prescribed lisinopril 20 mg daily, bisoprolol 10 mg daily and furosemide 40 mg daily for the last 6 months to treat her heart failure (NYHA II–III). Her blood pressure was measured 2 weeks ago and was 128/78 mmHg.

- Concomitant use of ARB and ACEi can bring high risk of RAAS-related side effects including notably angiodema and hyperkalaemia. There is a possibility that patient's treatment regimen is being switch from ACEi to ARB due to intolerance. Important to establish the reactions to ACEi and take them down as reasons for intolerance. If it was an intentional addition to the current therapy, following are needed to be monitored: serum potassium, renal function, blood pressure.
- So, can ARB be added as an adjusct medicaiton to existing ACEi?
In heart failure, the benefits of combined use of ARBs candesartan and valsartan \(no other ARBs\) with ACE-inhibitors may \(MAY\) surpass risks for certain heart failure patients unsuitable for other treatments. These are the only ARBs approved as additional therapy in symptomatic heart failure cases not fully managed by optimal therapy. However, using ACE-inhibitors, ARBs, and a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist or potassium-sparing diuretic together is not advised.
- (https://www.gov.uk/drug-safety-update/combination-use-of-medicines-from-different-classes-of-renin-angiotensin-system-blocking-agents-risk-of-hyperkalaemia-hypotension-and-impaired-renal-function-new-warnings)
- (https://hospitalpharmacyeurope.com/news/editors-pick/val-heft-the-valsartan-heart-failure-trial/)